the system requirements for the cms and requirements for an e-commerce platform : 

1. Marketing and SEO 
the internet is vast , getting your business in front of the right audience is crucial and challenging 

use google analytics and search console , making it easy to crawl google and list your website 

you can create email marketing campaigns , design newsletters and offer discounts . via brevo and create a personal platform to see via mcp :
BREVO_API_KEY=<set-in-env>
ADMIN_NOTIFICATION_EMAIL=i.t.safuneralsupplies@gmail.com
BREVO_SMTP_HOST=smtp-relay.brevo.com
BREVO_SMTP_PORT=587
BREVO_SMTP_LOGIN=a2dec4001@smtp-brevo.com
BREVO_SMTP_PASSWORD=<set-in-env>
BREVO_SMTP_FROM_EMAIL=i.t.safuneralsupplies@gmail.com
BREVO_SMTP_FROM_NAME=Pro Graphics

2.Storefront 
Your e-commerce store should have CTAs , shopping cart connections , clearly visible terms and policies 

also it should allow customers to navigate the storefront using search bars and filtering options easily 

3. catalog and product management 
the main function of ecommerce is managing entire product and designing product pages 

you can assign mulitiple attributes to products , size , color , accesorries , spare parts , etc and define rules for automatic category posting based on product labels . Display multimedia , intelligent reccommendations and channel specific pricing . Businesses selling services can also set up subscirptions and use watermarks

advanced solutions come equipped with 
- product recommendation on buyers history and browsing behavior . 

display stock availability on product pages and allow customers to create their own wishlists .

3. order management 
- view of orders 
customers can request return of funds and the system delegates the issue to concerned teams for quick resolution 

4. inventory management 
- you can track inventory 
- avoid out of stock situations 
- notifications when stock is low 

checkouts 
the checkout page is vital for ensuring conversions and reducing cart abandonment rates . make sure your checkout page smoothly transitions to the payment gateway without potential snags and long loading times 

customers value an intelligent checkout process that includes automated tax and shipping rate calculators , ETA's and auto populated carts based on navigation history for B2B customers . existing customers to auto-populate billing and shipping details from past purchases.

It can also track abandoned carts and help create email campaigns for recovery, reducing lost sales and bounce rates. Some solutions display a checkout progress bar that indicates the stages of the process, such as shipping, billing and confirmation, making it more intuitive for new customers.

5. Payments 
payment security 
this involves implementing robust measures to protect sensitive customer data and prevent fraudulent activities 

essential feature include PCI compliance , which gurantees adherence to industry standards for handling payment card info . the platform should also support variety of payment methods ,such as bank payments .

9. Shipping
The right eCommerce platform will help streamline your shipping workflow with features that cater to both customer convenience and business needs. The platform should offer options for selecting preferred delivery dates and times for a smooth customer experience. Additionally, defining shipping zones allows you to control delivery areas and display clear error messages for out-of-zone addresses.

10. Reporting and Dashboard
The platform must offer a range of reports, including sales reports for revenue analysis, site traffic reports for understanding customer behavior and performance reports to gauge marketing campaign effectiveness.

Customer reports provide insights into buying patterns and average order value, while inventory reports ensure optimal stock management.

To delve deeper, the solution should allow for report customization with filters and various display formats. Additionally, scheduling reports and exporting them in Excel or PDF format facilitates further analysis and data sharing.

For a real-time view of key metrics, custom dashboards are essential. These allow you to build personalized dashboards with widgets displaying critical data on sales, orders, payments and customers. With the ability to configure access levels, you can ensure team members have the information they need.

Non-Functional Requirements
Functional requirements define the task at hand, whereas non-functional requirements specify constraints and restrictions on how the system must perform these tasks.

Here are some major non-functional Ecommerce system requirements you should consider in your requirements documentation:

1. Performance
Performance is a critical aspect of any eCommerce website, directly impacting user experience and driving sales. A slow-loading website can lead to high bounce rates and lost customers. Therefore, it’s essential to prioritize performance from the early stages of development.

Key considerations:

Set clear performance targets: Define specific metrics such as page load times, response times and concurrent user capacity.
Optimize code: Write efficient and well-structured code to minimize performance bottlenecks.
Use performance testing tools: Employ tools like Dynatrace to identify and address performance issues.
Consider scalability: Ensure your system can handle increased traffic during peak periods like sales or promotions.

2. Security
Security is crucial for protecting customer data and maintaining trust. A compromised eCommerce website can lead to financial losses, reputational damage and legal consequences. As an online entrepreneur, here are some of the major threats you should be aware of:

Brute force attacks
DDoS attacks
Data breaches
Payment fraud
Malware and ransomware
Phishing attacks
Beyond the usual PCI-DSS compliance and GDPR guidelines, here are a few essential security measures you should consider, according to Shashank Kota, Principal Research Analyst at SelectHub:

Site-wide passwords: This feature restricts access to specific web pages through password protection, ensuring only authorized visitors can view the content. When users attempt to access the protected page, the system prompts them to enter a password.
Multi-factor authentication: Multi-factor or two-factor authentication (MFA/2FA) is a security process that requires users to verify their identity using multiple means, such as entering a username and password on a webpage and confirming through an app on a mobile device.
Single sign-on: This authentication method lets users in an organization sign in to their account using their organizational profile login details. The solution supports SSO for both employees and clients.
SSL certificate: SSL ensures customer data remains private and secure by encrypting communication between the website and external sources. This is achieved through a TLS (Transport Layer Security) certificate, commonly called an SSL certificate. It uses HTTPS instead of HTTP to protect sensitive information during transactions.
Role-based access: The solution offers varying user access levels through roles that define permissions and behaviors. Alongside default roles like Admin, users can create custom roles to meet their organization’s unique needs while restricting access for others.
Data encryption: Ecommerce software helps protect user data both in transit and at rest using various encryption technologies.

3. Usability
Usability is all about how easy it is for users to navigate and interact with your website. A user-friendly interface can enhance the shopping experience and increase conversions.

Key considerations:

Design for clarity: Use clear and concise language, intuitive navigation and consistent design elements.
Optimize for mobile devices: Ensure your website is responsive and functions well on smartphones and tablets.
Provide helpful search functionality: Enable customers to easily find products or information.
Test with real users: Conduct usability testing to gather feedback and identify areas for improvement.
4. Scalability
Scalability is the ability of your system to handle increasing loads and demands. As your business grows, you’ll need to ensure your website can accommodate more traffic and data without compromising performance.

Kota explained some key scaling-friendly features to look for in eCommerce software:

Reliable performance for high order volumes: A scalable system should maintain functionality under increased workload. Reliability must accompany scalability, which requires the system to continue operating efficiently as demand grows.
Peak traffic handling: The software should be able to scale vertically by adding more hardware or horizontally by adding extra servers to manage high traffic during peak times.
Load balancing: The platform should support load balancing to distribute traffic evenly across servers, ensuring optimal performance and a smooth user experience.
Lazy loading: This technique improves performance by delaying loading images and other content until necessary, reducing page load times for users.
Uptime: A dependable hosting system must support the platform to ensure maximum uptime and availability.
Support for multiple stores and brands: A scalable platform should allow businesses to manage various stores or brands within a single system.
Cloud deployment: Most eCommerce platforms offer cloud deployment or SaaS options. This method enables flexible scalability by adjusting IT resources based on changing needs. Businesses can increase or decrease resources as necessary, which is a key advantage of cloud systems and a major reason for their widespread adoption.
5. Interoperability
Interoperability is the ability of your eCommerce system to integrate with other systems and services. This can include payment gateways, shipping providers, CRM software, marketing solutions and more.

According to Kota, these are some of the most crucial integrations required for a successful eCommerce business:

Email marketing software: This integration enhances a store’s marketing automation by enabling targeted, personalized emails and SMS campaigns.
ERP software: It syncs financial, pricing and inventory data in real time, improving resource management and supporting informed decision-making.
CRM: This allows the eCommerce platform to sync customer interactions, sales data and support tickets, helping businesses improve service and personalize marketing efforts.
Payment software: It enables an online store to accept multiple payment methods, including credit cards, mobile wallets and cryptocurrency, while securing transaction data through encryption and ensuring compliance with security standards like SSL and PCI DSS.
Inventory management: This integration updates SKU quantities across all sales channels and warehousing systems in real time, ensuring accurate inventory tracking with every transaction.
Accounting software: It automates the recording of sales, expenses and taxes, providing real-time financial insights and simplifying transaction reconciliation.
Chatbot software: Chatbot and customer service tool integration centralizes customer inquiries and syncs data across channels, offering a complete view of customer interactions and order histories.
Key considerations:

Use standardized APIs: Adhere to industry-standard APIs like RESTful APIs for seamless integration.
Consider integration platforms: Use integration platforms like Zapier and Commercient SYNC to simplify the process of connecting different systems.
Test integrations thoroughly: Ensure that integrations work as expected and don’t introduce vulnerabilities.
Plan for future integrations: Consider potential future integrations and design your system accordingly.



